The future is what you make it.  

When you join Honeywell, you become a member of our global team of thinkers, innovators, dreamers, and doers who make the things that make the future. That means changing the way we fly, fueling jets in an eco-friendly way, keeping buildings smart and safe and even making it possible to breathe on Mars.  

Working at Honeywell isn’t just about developing cool things. That’s why our employees enjoy access to dynamic career opportunities across different fields and industries.  

 

Are you ready to help us make the future?  

 

ABOUT THE ROLE:  

The Embedded Engineer develops and implements the software of embedded devices and systems. They are also responsible for the analysis and monitoring of the efficiency and stability of a system. They develop and implement embedded devices and systems and support software quality assurance while optimizing I/O performance. The Embedded Software Engineer develops codes, tests, and troubleshoots system software. They are the designers of the first layer of code that runs on a device and need a full comprehension of its hardware.

 

Location: This position is available in multiple locations across the United States.  

The exact worksite location will be selected based on business requirements and the candidate’s relevant experience and qualifications. 

 

The hourly base range for this position is $20.00/hr - $42.00/hr. Please note that this salary information serves as a general guideline. Honeywell considers various factors when extending an offer, including but not limited to the scope and responsibilities of the position, the candidate's work experience, education and training, key skills, as well as market and business considerations.   

 

Qualifications

 

MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:    

Currently pursuing a bachelor’s degree (or higher) from an accredited college or university in Computer Engineering, Software Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Computer Science or similar field  
Must graduate December 2026 or later    
Must continue enrollment in degree program upon completion of the internship  
Validated academic excellence (3.0 GPA and higher)    
 

WE VALUE:  

Embedded systems development using C/C++, ADA, or similar language
Knowledge of software configuration management
Experience/knowledge of Matlab, Simulink, LabView, Python
 

Interning at Honeywell provides hands-on experience with cutting-edge technologies, professional development, and mentorship within a global organization. Interns will receive relocation benefits and short-term housing if they are 50 miles or more from their assigned work location (excluding Puerto Rico and Canada).  

 

The application period for the intern position is estimated to be through the end of March 2026; however, this may be shortened or extended depending on business needs and the availability of qualified candidates


