It started with a simple idea: what if surgery could be less invasive and recovery less painful? Nearly 30 years later, that question still fuels everything we do at Intuitive. As a global leader in robotic-assisted surgery and minimally invasive care, our technologies—like the da Vinci surgical system and Ion—have transformed how care is delivered for millions of patients worldwide.

We’re a team of engineers, clinicians, and innovators united by one purpose: to make surgery smarter, safer, and more human. Every day, our work helps care teams perform with greater precision and patients recover faster, improving outcomes around the world.

The problems we solve demand creativity, rigor, and collaboration. The work is challenging, but deeply meaningful—because every improvement we make has the potential to change a life.

If you’re ready to contribute to something bigger than yourself and help transform the future of healthcare, you’ll find your purpose here.

Job Description

Primary Function of Position

The software engineering intern will play a key role on the Manufacturing Software Engineering team to enable the manufacture of new surgical robotic instruments and accessories. This intern will develop the software and algorithms that assure each instrument’s kinematic performance and safety. The position will require close collaboration with product development teams, systems analysts, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, manufacturing engineers, and quality engineers to build a coherent diagnostic strategy and develop software to implement the same.

Essential Job Duties 

Architect, design and develop software systems that control machines to streamline manufacturing process

Builds and maintain software infrastructures that enable value extraction from the data generated

Understand each new product’s operation and control, and develop the means to ensure their integrity in volume production

Design, document, and qualify software for use in manufacturing new instruments and accessories

Follow good software development practices

Work independently to overcome roadblocks with minimum guidance

Take ownership of manufacturing software and work with cross-functional teams to drive projects to completion

Support existing production software 

Qualifications

Required Skills and Experience

Passionate about technologies and love programming

Able to map, develop, and test projects from inception to launch

A track record for executing and delivering on projects

Motivated to continually improve best practices

Adaptable to dynamic requirements

Enjoy the thrill of tackling large complex problems

Great written and verbal communication skills

Strong programming skill and experience (C# .NET is a plus)

Understanding of OOA/OOD/OOP/Design Patterns

Detail oriented team player

Resourceful problem-solving machine

Foster strong sense of team with peers through solicitation of feedback and constructive contribution to review sessions

Excellent ability to communicate complex concepts to engineers

University Hiring Program Eligibility Requirements:

University Enrollment: Must be currently enrolled in and returning to an accredited degree-seeking academic program after the internship.

Internship Work Period: Must be available to work full-time (approximately 40 hours per week) during a 10-12 week period starting May or June. Specific start dates are shared during the recruiting process.

Required Education and Training 

Current enrollment in a Computer Science or Electrical Engineering or related degree-seeking program at the Master’s or Doctorate level.

Additional Information

Due to the nature of our business and the role, please note that Intuitive and/or your customer(s) may require that you show current proof of vaccination against certain diseases including COVID-19.  Details can vary by role.

Intuitive is an Equal Opportunity Employer. We provide equal employment opportunities to all qualified applicants and employees, and prohibit discrimination and harassment of any type, without regard to race, sex, pregnancy, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, color, age, religion, protected veteran or disability status, genetic information or any other status protected under federal, state, or local applicable laws.

Mandatory Notices

U.S. Export Controls Disclaimer:  In accordance with the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (15 CFR §743.13(b)), some roles at Intuitive Surgical may be subject to U.S. export controls for prospective employees who are nationals from countries currently on embargo or sanctions status.

Certain information you provide as part of the application will be used for purposes of determining whether Intuitive Surgical will need to (i) obtain an export license from the U.S. Government on your behalf (note: the government’s licensing process can take 3 to 6+ months) or (ii) implement a Technology Control Plan (“TCP”) (note: typically adds 2 weeks to the hiring process).  

For any Intuitive role subject to export controls, final offers are contingent upon obtaining an approved export license and/or an executed TCP prior to the prospective employee’s start date, which may or may not be flexible, and within a timeframe that does not unreasonably impede the hiring need. If applicable, candidates will be notified and instructed on any requirements for these purposes. 

We will consider for employment qualified applicants with arrest and conviction records in accordance with fair chance laws.

We provide market-competitive compensation packages, inclusive of base pay (paid at an hourly rate), benefits, and a housing allowance. It would not be typical for someone to be hired at the top end of range for the role, as actual pay will be determined based on several factors, including relevant skills and experience for this internship, degree-seeking academic program (PhD, Master’s, Bachelor’s, etc), year in school, and location. The hourly rate is prorated against the intern program salaries listed and total program compensation will be based on internship duration.


